Speed is the new mode, right? So the the
one if there's one takeaway, you have no
excuse to not be moving faster, right?
And really, you now have these
superpowers at your fingertips.
And you know, I I think something I like
to tell folks is every question that you
would ask in a meeting with some, you
know, third party and an external party,
you can be asking those questions of
perplexity of different AIs in advance,
right? So the there's no excuse to not
be informed. You should not actually be
doing the discovery like you shouldn't
be learning the discovery questions in
real time. But I think the imperative is
to move faster because your competitors
are moving faster.
Hey, are you tired of listening to hours
and hours of sales calls? Recording is
yesterday's game, folks. Yesterday's
game. Attention.com unleashes an army of
AI sales agents that auto update your
CRM. Build custom sales decks, spot
cross-ell signals, and score calls even
before the coffee is cold. Even before
the coffee is cold. Teams like Bamboo HR
and Scale AI already automate their
sales and revops using customer
conversations. Step into the future at
attention.com/saster.
[Music]
excited to be here. Another incredible
SAS annual. Big shout out to Jason Limin
and Amelia and this whole SAS team.
Every year bigger and better than the
last somehow. Thrilled to be here. My
name is Sam Blonde. I have a series
through Saster called CRO Confidential.
I'm also the founder of a startup that's
in stealth that's an end toend revenue
platform. Enough about me. We have one
of the coolest guests from one of the
hottest tech companies in the world
right now. Dimmitri Chevoleno is chief
business officer at Perplexity. I won't
talk much about you or the business
because I won't do it justice. Before we
jump in, maybe just tell us a little bit
about your background and tell us what
perplexity is and then we're going to
talk a lot about how folks should be
leveraging AI in sales and more.
Awesome. Well, thanks everybody for
coming. Thanks Sam for doing this.
Hopefully have some fun. So, I'm
Dimmitri, CBO at at Perplexity. For
those that haven't tried Perplexity,
it's an answer machine. You bring your
hard questions and we do our best to
answer them for you grounding it in the
high quality sources from the internet
from inside your organization from
highquality external sources
and it's been a real privilege to to be
part of the perplexity journey. I
started my career at Facebook, was at
LinkedIn, was at Uber, had tastes of
hyperrowth
and got addicted to that feeling and
excited to be creating it once again
with perplexity. Awesome. Well, thank
you for doing this. So, let's see.
Coming into the show, I often do some
research on the guests, listen to some
podcasts, those sorts of things. For
this one, I started with just asking
perplexity. It gave it a prompt around
this is who I am. This is a little bit
about the show. This is my guest today,
Dimmitri, and his role. What are the
most important topics that we could
include in the list of things to discuss
today? And Perplexity basically just
built the show for us. And so, you know,
they talk about like AI coming for your
job. This is one that I think is pretty
quickly being disrupted. With that in
mind, there are two really exceptional
topics that I I think you'll have maybe
the most sophisticated view on than
anyone in the world. The first is like
you know you're at this cutting edge AI
company. You're also a former founder.
And so one of the things that I want to
do is talk about where we are today and
how companies specifically tech
companies should be leveraging AI within
their gotom market organizations. So
that's topic one. We'll move on to the
sort of intersection of productled
growth and salesass assisted customer
acquisition. I think perplexity has a
lot of revenue with a mix of sort of
productled or folks coming directly to
the website and signing up also sales
assisted I think that's true across like
you know many if not most companies that
are formed around AI and in B2B so let's
start with the for former of the topics
if you are a startup founder today
you're starting a new business you've
been a startup founder for
most of what there is to know about AI's
capabilities today, the products that
exist in the market and more. What are
the things that you are leveraging AI
for as part of demand genen and customer
acquisition? And then maybe what are
some of the things that we aren't yet
there? Yeah, I think we we were talking
about this backstage. Speed is the new
moat, right? So the the one if there's
one takeaway, you have no excuse to not
be moving faster, right? And really you
now have these superpowers at your
fingertips.
And you know, I I think something I like
to tell folks is every question that you
would ask in a meeting with some, you
know, third party and an external party,
you can be asking those questions of
perplexity of different AIs in advance,
right? So the there's no excuse to not
be informed.
You should not actually be doing the
discovery like you shouldn't be learning
the discovery questions like in real
time. Now we'll get into a tactic that I
like to use that that I think is the
best of both worlds.
But I think the imperative is to move
faster because your competitors are
moving faster.
I get asked, you know,
why is it that Perplexity is in the
position that we're in? And part of it
is timing and part of it is execution
speed. If we had, you know, we got lucky
with timing. If we had founded the
company 6 months before we did, GPT3
would not have been good enough, the
equivalent of it at that point in time.
and and we wouldn't have been able to
create that initial magical experience
of combining AI with the internet. If we
had started 6 months later, there would
be somebody else on stage right now that
would have like seized that that moment.
And so that that's really kind of where
I like to give advice for founders.
Okay, that's awesome. So I think it it's
sort of the version of what I did with
Perplexity coming into this show. It's
like you're a founder or you're a sales
rep. you have a meeting coming up, just
prompt AI or Perplexity
with who you are, what your company
does, who you're meeting with, what
their role is, and ask them like, how
should we structure this call? What are
the things that I should know going into
the call? And so, this is the sort of
like meeting prep that used to be very
manual that you can probably do in just
a matter of seconds. And again, sort of
like relating to prep preparing for this
show, I saved probably 90 minutes to two
hours on just sort of like prep for what
are the things that we should talk
about, tell me about Demetri just by
prompting perplexity versus doing the
listening to podcasts, a bunch of my own
research. You're applying that same
thing to meeting preparation. Yeah. And
I think it's about just being with the
time you saved, you actually then ask
more questions, right? And going deeper.
So what are perplexity's biggest
challenges? Like how have they tried to
solve them? You know, once you're armed
with the initial information, it should
spark that curiosity. One of the most
popular features in the product are the
related questions that we show below the
answer because the thing, you know,
there's no end stop to knowledge and
learning. the, you know, a good answer
just begs more questions and you
actually want to
when you're then like going from meeting
prep to the actual meeting, you want to
carry that spirit with you. So, what I
like to do is I'll just share my screen
and I will in real time start asking
questions about the company that that
I'm talking to or the person, right? So,
it's like, hey, what are the the biggest
challenges company X is facing?
How have they tried to solve them? So
you kind of show your work in real time
and obviously it's easy for us to do it
because it's showing our own product but
in some ways it's even more powerful for
you all to do this because if you can
prompt the right way and all of a sudden
your solution your product your approach
comes up in the AI generated answer or
it points to that man that is authentic
that's powerful it's transparent and I
I've just seen that work really well and
I think that's a tact ic of just in in
this new era transparency is everything
and if a smart AI is pointing to a
certain direction that's going to help
whoever you're you're meeting with gain
conviction in that direction too. Okay.
So I would I would categorize these
things as combination of like meeting
prep and meeting assistance
that historically would take 10 to 20
times the amount of effort as as it does
today. Anything else that comes to mind
before we sort of progress? Yeah, I mean
I I think in general at the earliest
stages of startup development and this
isn't just using perplexity, but the
rate at which you're prototyping and
coming up with new concepts, getting
feedback on them, that can all be
accelerated dramatically, right? And so
when you are then ready to you know put
put the pedal on the gas you should have
a lot more conviction and you've tried a
lot more concepts
and so you know using tools like cursor
you know we're going to have the ability
to build many apps and perplexity soon
or something's going to get announced
called projects you know it's not meant
to be a coding replacement but to
quickly visualize different concepts and
get feedback on them that should no
longer take a week, a month, that's like
an hour. And and you should be
constantly running through your head,
you know, how can I do in one hour what
used to take a day, in one day what used
to take a week, in one week what used to
take a month. And that's the right
mental model here. Awesome. I'll add a
little bit of my own color before we get
into more mature businesses and how a
company like Perplexity is leveraging
the advancement of this technology. you
know as a early stage founder myself
there there are a few things within go
to market that I am leveraging today.
The first is lead scoring. You know
historically this used to be something
that was pretty complicated that you
would need maybe revops assistance with
and it was like very manual and very
trial and error. Models are quite good
at this today. So as you are building
out your addressable market, the scoring
of that addressable market models are
very good at I I think the second thing
that I am taking advantage of and again
like you're sort of behind if you aren't
doing these things is intent signals. So
once you have a set your database it is
scored based off of you know different
tiers formographic information you want
to overlay intent signals on top of your
scored database. So these are things
like where do I have connections that
exist within buyers at these companies?
Are they hiring for different roles?
Whatever your individual intent signals
are that you want to overlay on top of
your addressable market models are very
good at that today. And there are
several products that do this today. And
then lastly on the demand gen side it it
we're very good today at deciding the
type of outreach to take advantage of
given the account score and the intent
signals. So if we want to prescribe
reach out to this account with this
message through these channels because
of you know these reasons you know these
three different steps here score my
database for me overlay intent signals
on top of my scored database and then
tell me what I should do to break into
these accounts based off of the
information that exists in these scores
and intent signals. Models are very good
at that today. And so these are things
that I I think like if you today aren't
leveraging in go to market acquiring
customers you're you're a little bit
behind. And then you described the
meeting prep I think very well. Once you
do have meetings on calendars I think
that the models are quite good at
preparing you for that stuff. Okay let's
talk about as as we get a little bit
larger and introduce more complexity in
the organization potentially you know
management structure and those sorts of
things. How is a company like Perplexity
taking it to the next level in terms of
leveraging either your own technology or
AI in general to do things that weren't
possible even 12 months ago? Yeah, I
think one mental model is to assume that
using a tool like perlexity and other
AIS, you can get to 80% of an expert
level in a lot of fields that you know
are not your profession, right? So a
good example is when I receive a
contract
instead of immediately kicking over to
the lawyer I run it through perplexity
and I prompt and I ask hey what are the
likely issues here and what should I
actually discuss with my counsel and
that way when I am actually engaged with
I'm not just like pretending to be a
lawyer and then going off of what the AI
says like I don't think that's where the
technology is. I know some founders do
operate that way, but we're talking
about more mature organizations
and in and and for them it's it's really
about making that lawyer's time more
efficient so that when a business
counterpart comes to them with an ask,
it's focused. They've already done their
homework and you're not wasting time on
the broad review and you're zero zeroing
in on the most pertinent issues. And so
then take that same approach and think
about engaging with a colleague in
marketing, a colleague in design. You're
able to whatever your zone of
responsibility is and you need to
interface with others, you're able to
anticipate a lot of what they may help
you with. And so then when you do
approach them, you're saving both both
sides a lot of time, right? And and
that's where we see incredible
efficiencies. I think there's also when
you have templates, right? So say you
need to generate a proposal and you have
you know three or four really good
examples. People love uploading those
into Perplexity spaces and then
prompting, hey, can you generate an
example, a proposal in the same style,
but for this other company? And where
Perplexity really excels is we're able
to pull in all the real time information
about that company, what's specific to
them, and preserve the style of your
templates, but update it and personalize
it for that company, right? And you
should never then just take that output
and immediately hit send. That's not I
think that's it's not about replacing
human judgment and oversight. It's about
saving you that time to get to the 80%
quality first draft and then making sure
you're applying your judgment, your
intuition on that last mile. Awesome.
I'll add a little bit of color as well.
I think, you know, as companies mature a
little bit, you get more data and I
think you can train a model about
historical engagements that you've had
with different companies and and data on
sort of like how to position your
product. One of the things that Jason
brings up a lot is how effect Jason from
Zaster brings up a lot is how effective
their AI is at sort of like selling for
SAS. you know, they have on their
website, come talk to the like chatbot.
And I think like I I'll I'll go a little
bit further on that specific example,
but I think generally speaking,
transactional sort of commodity like
sales will be disrupted in ways that
support has been disrupted where more
and more revenue will be generated from
just pure models converting website
visitors to revenue without the sales
touch. And I think that will continue to
become increasingly true. You know, as I
said, Jason was raving about how Saster
is leveraging their AI. And I wanted to
like play with it, see what all the hype
is about. Let's see. Beginning of last
week, I went to Saster and it was just
like, hey, it feels like I'm pretty
late, but is there still any
sponsorships that I could take advantage
of for next week's annual? And
interestingly, what the model did is
something that I think a sales rep would
never do. And it it sort of like
downsold me. And what I mean by that was
it, you know, it sort of outlined here
are the types of sponsorships that you
can still move forward with that are
available.
Like I actually would, I being the
model, would recommend that you move
forward with like either a gold booth, a
silver sponsorship, or one of these
brand type sponsorships because one of
the more advanced sponsorships, I don't
know if it was the platinum or or what
it was exactly, it was like, you know,
it's going to be pretty tough for you to
take advantage of all that that that
sponsorship level has to offer given
that we're 8 days away from the event.
And like you know that just built a lot
of trust with the AI that I was speaking
to. It's the type of experience that I
just can't imagine that is what a sales
rep would be recommending because of
course they they like want to maximize
the amount of revenue that the company
generates and and ultimately their
commission. So I I I think like that is
maybe some proof of models and AI
replacing salespeople especially at the
sort of like transactional or almost
commodity style sales. You know other
end of the spectrum you have the I I
don't know andurals of the world that
are selling weapons to the government
probably need a human for that for the
foreseeable future and then everything
in between. Just building on that, I
think the the most essential quality for
AI products and AI first products as you
project out is what you were referring
to, which I call trust, right? And, you
know, you really have to trust a
salesperson
to, you know, have confidence they're
not selling you something you don't
need. But the trust threshold for an AI
is even greater. And, you know, that
that informs everything we do at
Perplexity. How do we create and
preserve trust with our users?
And trust will be the scarce asset of
the agentic internet and a lot of the
products that are built on top of it. So
it's easy to create AIS that manipulate
people, but that's a very short-term
strategy and for folks that want to
build for the long term, you have to
build trust in at the foundation level
of your product and how you prompt these
different AIs. Yeah. I I I I think
that's smart.
A And then the second thing that comes
to mind as companies mature a little
bit.
It's in the category of converting
demand or opportunities to revenue. So
closing revenue. And you know, you might
be a founder that manages some
salespeople. You might be a sales leader
that manages a team of salespeople. And
you know, this typically manifests in
what I would describe as pipeline
reviews where this can either be ad hoc
or casual where it's sort of like, you
know, how's the opportunity with
perplexity going and you get an update
from the sales rep. Over time it becomes
a little bit more formalized where you
know my experience and this was true
even up to something like 12 months ago
you have this incredibly sophisticated
revops influence process around you have
a 30 minute meeting with each of your
sales reps and in that meeting there is
within your CRM all of the deals that
have the sales rep notes that are like
ready in different categories for you to
talk about you know each of the sort of
risks and
you know highest probabilities with the
different deals and then through that
you kind of get to a forecast and you
know everything is like so perfect about
this process and revops has set up this
like beautiful spreadsheet and CRM the
only problem is it's entirely wrong and
you know you have like a a sales rep
that is adding their own like subjective
experience about the account like they
may want to influence the sales manager
to think that the deal is going to close
or they may be forgetting about what
actually having on the call. And you
know, back to your point around trust
today, you should have a model that is
reading all communication with the
buyer, the opportunity, the customer,
and that's over generally email. You
also should have an AI that is joining
all of your calls. And the AI should be
the one that is preparing for that
meeting. And so when you come in, it's
not actually the sort of like sales rep
subjective information about the
opportunity. This is like very matterof
fact. You have a prompt. Given all of
the data that you have in the model,
what are the risks about this deal? What
do you think the probability of this
deal closing is? What are the
suggestions that you have for the sales
rep? And so as if you are not doing this
today with a model this like pipeline
review sort of pipeline hygiene type
application you are a bit behind and
something that wasn't totally possible
12 months ago. Yeah the one thing that
you can rely on in terms of the
direction of AI progress is the context
windows will expand right you'll be able
to feed more into the prompt and get a
useful output. But right now, yeah, they
they claim million tokens, 10 million
tokens. When you start going up to that
size of input, the quality deteriorates
on the output, but that's not, you know,
you have to assume it will get better.
And yeah, you'll be able to just feed
in, not necessarily train a new model,
but just in the prompt pass in every
conversation you've had with with a
potential client and get that, you know,
honest readout and benchmark it against
the other prospects.
Okay, we're all move we're moving just
so fast with the progression of the
technology and then the way that people
are coming up with applying it and you
know we talked about a lot of these
things that even 12 months ago they were
either less good than they are today
certainly less um trustworthy or not
possible and in your seat being at truly
the cutting edge of you probably having
even access to things that aren't
available publicly today. you know, if
we're sitting here this time next year,
I think it's, you know, really hard to
project out beyond 12 months, what are
the types of things that you're excited
about that we can expect over, you know,
the course of the rest of this year?
Yeah,
I'd like to answer that by saying what
won't change because in some ways that's
a harder
challenge and and I think the you know
going back to where we started
coming up with the right questions to
ask will become the critical skill right
and you can say that's a form of like
prompting
but preserving the spark of curiosity
and knowing
where to take the next question
that's cuz the answers will keep getting
smarter. the mo products of perplexity
will be better at incorporating many
different sources but it won't it won't
solve the cold start challenge right and
so the cold start spark that's the thing
to focus in on that's the thing that
that that you can project
will remain an evergreen problem I I
think where we want to take the
technology is to become a lot more
proactive rather than being reactive
right so instead of you having to always
ask for the update of what's happening
with this account,
we're able to detect those changes that
are meaningful and surface that to you,
right? And whether that be your personal
life, your professional life,
transcending there,
having these technologies become more
personalized, become more proactive. I
think that that's what I would expect 12
months from now. Awesome. I'll try and
layer in a couple tap tactical
things that I think will change with the
way that that companies how companies
leverage technology.
You know, I talked about the different
peacemeal things that today models are
very good at scoring accounts,
overlaying intent signals, determining
what the best outreach strategy to to
ultimately generate a meeting and close
revenue is. You know, today these things
sort of manifest in like a very
peacemeal approach where you have maybe
one product or service or one approach
to doing the account scoring and then
you have to sort of like check the work
and see if it's correct and then you
have like a different model, different
company, different product that is doing
the intent signals. Then you have a
different model or product, however you
want to think about that's doing the
outreach strategy.
I think there will be a sort of like
unified platform that comes together
that takes all of these sort of
disperate peacemeal processes and and
basically combines them. So can
effectively say like this is my TAM I
want meetings and the output can be the
these things are still happening behind
the scenes but they're all happening in
one sort of unified end to-end platform.
And I think because of that, what will
start to happen for technology
companies, for technology founders, so
much more of the success of the business
will be predicated on finding product
market fit, like delivering customer
value rather than being exceptional at
developing and scaling go to market
because I think that the models are
going to start to become really good at
that. And so for technical folks, I
think that's hopefully music to your
ears where it's like, you know, you can
really focus on
solving customer problems, building the
product, finding product market fit, and
gosh, like the risk around hiring the
right SDR leaders and teams is far more
abstracted away because the technology
can get so much better at this stuff.
Yeah. I mean, I I think we're a good
example of how this may play out. We
have around over 5,000 enterprise
clients for Perplexity Enterprise Pro
and we have five sellers.
And so that I mean that also speaks to
like the PLG motion of of having a
consumerf facing version of perplexity
is very popular and that effectively
reaches every enterprise that could
potentially become an enterprise
customer. But I think that's
there's a version of that that's true
for many businesses. How do you have use
AI to bridge that that kind of
enterprise version of what you want to
sell with the easy to get the 8020 of
the value consumer accessible version
that may distribute itself and that's
you know an AI may help in crafting that
but that feels like a strategy to
unlock. Yeah, I I think it's really
smart sort of piggybacking off of your
comment around something like Yeah, I
think I don't want to butcher this. Was
it 5,000 customers from five sales reps?
Yeah, exactly. So, like, you know,
incredibly efficient
go to market model that you have in
place. I I think you know I'm I'm now
leading you know that the product that I
describe as what I'm hopefully and we
are hopefully building
but I now have a startup and I've I've
gone through sales cycles buying
products for the company that I lead and
there have been several instances where
it was sort of like a commodity
transactional sale and I was just like
the sales rep adds unnecessary negative
friction and like I have to wait on them
to respond and get back to my email and
they want to take a call and it's like
gosh like I just want to buy the thing
and maybe I have some questions but
these are the types of questions that
the Jason Zaster model that I described
earlier they're going to have better
answers than the you know low paid sales
rep that's selling this transactional
commodity and so I I think like one
thing that maybe slightly more mature
businesses and certainly businesses that
have been around for a long time should
start to think through is like is the
way that we are leveraging
sales reps sales people. I is this the
future or like are we actually adding
negative value by paying sales reps to
try and serve and convert these
customers and like you know maybe start
trying to disrupt yourselves a little
bit and what that will what that will do
is it will enable the salespeople to
focus on the opportunities where
somebody is truly needed like I I really
want to talk to a sales rep versus the
buyer like me on the other end saying
like I don't want to talk to a
saleserson but are forcing me to and I
do think that we're collectively
probably a little bit behind given the
capabilities of models today. Yeah.
Where sellers end up being still very
essential is things like security and
compliance review where you're you
actually it goes back to trust where
somewhat arbitrary process. you know,
hopefully one day those become more
automated, too. But that's where, you
know, you need the human glue to to fill
the gap. And Sam, I hope you won't get
upset me sharing this, but you know, in
your cell startup, one of the things
you're using is actually Perplexity's
sonar APIs, which I think is, you know,
for folks here kind of at the earliest
stages of building
new products, being able to pull in real
time information, which is kind of our
bread and butter, but synthesize and
reason with AI and LLMs, that that's
what we're, you know, unlocking with our
APIs. It's growing really fast. We have
75,000 developers using them and in very
much in the space where Sam is building.
We're seeing a lot of traction. So was
really happy to hear that you your guys
are finding value there. We are happy c
customers. For the record, Perplexity
was not one of the companies that forced
us to talk to a sales rep that I was
really disappointed with. It was
incredibly easy to onboard. You know,
unfortunately I I think one of the
things we wanted to talk about was
productled growth. the intersection of
productled growth and salesass assisted
growth and I I think we don't have time
but uh you know your business is one
that does an incredible job with that. I
think we're going to start getting the
like music to kick us off the stage.
Dimmitri you are awesome. Huge round of
applause for Dimmitri. Thank you. Thanks
everyone for attending.